Romans chapter 3 verse 23 and it reads as follows, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.
Let's pray before we get started.
Dear God, thank you for gathering us here in your house today to hear your word, to hear your message.
Lord, may your message be made manifest in the hearts of all these people here today.
May your message speak to everyone here today.
It's not my message, God, it's your message.
Can you speak through me?
May you share your word, share your wisdom, share your glory.
with everyone listening here today.
And pray all these things in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So, one of the big buzzwords of today is the word normal.
Right?
That's been going around a lot.
We've been hearing it more and more.
Are we getting back to normal?
Right?
Oh, June 15th passed.
Is it getting back to normal?
We've heard in the first half, Willie talking about his work.
Are they going back to the office?
You hear Melvin all the time coming up here saying, maybe church will get back to normal.
That's the buzzword.
Everyone's talking about it.
Everyone has that on their mind.
We hear about it from everywhere, whether it be in the pop culture,
and you see like, oh look, the AT&T park opened and now they have like huge crowds and you saw the pictures, wow, right?
Or Disneyland, like oh, Disneyland now at full capacity and you see the pictures, isn't that normal, right?
People keep thinking about that word.
People keep wanting that word, right?
The idea that there is something out there, that mythical time before the pandemic, right?
That oh, if we could reach out
If we could resume that, if there was something like that, the whole February 2020 of it all, right?
That if we were in the February 2020, wouldn't that be great?
Wouldn't that be the thing we all want?
We just want to get back to normal.
There's a problem with that though.
There's a problem with that.
The problem is that there's no normal to get back to.
There's no normal to get back to.
There's no such thing as a magic wand.
There's no turning back the clock.
We can't just go to any point in time that we want to.
You know, one of the funny things that we heard a lot in the past four years is this saying, right?
And it's a political slogan, but not a realistic one.
The political slogan is make America great again, right?
Make America great again.
What does that imply?
That implies that, oh, that sometime in the past
America was great.
And if we could only get to that point again, wouldn't life be great, right?
And it sounds good.
Boy, I want that.
I want America to be great again, right?
It sounds great.
But when you think of the logic, and some people have thought through the logic, right?
A lot of it didn't ever make sense, right?
Other than just a slogan, right?
Which is a good slogan, but it's just a slogan.
Why?
You ask someone, okay, when was America great?
When should we go back to?
And someone might say, oh,
Let's go back to the 1950s.
The 1950s were great.
America was great then.
And then someone would say, oh yeah, it was great, but wasn't there like segregation and like racism everywhere?
Oh yeah, we're gonna go back there, but not that part, right?
Or maybe you say like, oh, maybe it's like the 1980s.
Oh, isn't the 1980s good, right?
Let's go back to 1980s.
Oh, you mean when we were facing the Cold War and possible nuclear destruction every day?
Well, I don't like that part.
We're going to go back, but not that, right?
And you can go on and on thinking about all this stuff in the past where no one can really point to where's the thing.
Do we really want to go back to back in the day where we had, you know,
15% interest rates on loans back then, right?
Or back in the days where we had no, you know, internet and computers, right?
And all these things.
The reality was there's no such thing as turning back the clock.
Oh, we're going to make America like it used to be.
And likewise, there's no turning back the clock on the pandemic.
There's no turning back the clock on COVID-19.
And there's no quick way to say, oh, you know,
Everything is now officially back to normal, June 15th pass.
We're all back to normal now and forget what happened over the past year and a half.
And it worked that way.
When people face a trauma, a trauma, a big event, it affects their lives in so many different ways and make no mistake.
COVID-19 is probably a life-defining event for many of us here.
Maybe for the younger people, maybe the life-defining event.
This is about this way.
Some of us older people have been through other events, right?
And we've seen how a traumatic event can shake up everything.
Like I think for my generation, and maybe some of the older generations, maybe the previous biggest shake up event that happened in our history was back in 2001, the September 11th terrorist attack.
Now some of you guys are
young, maybe it's not, doesn't mean as much to you.
Maybe you guys are only like five years old or two years old, doesn't mean anything.
But for us, it was a big event, a watershed event, right?
You had this horrible terrorist attack, over 5,000 people died.
And I think it's safe to say that there was no going back after that.
The world was changed.
What happened in the years after the 9-11 terrorist attack?
Well, the United States started getting into wars everywhere, right?
Going to war in the Middle East, war in Afghanistan.
The troops are still in Afghanistan today, are they not, right?
What happened?
Totally different attitudes on things as simple as air travel.
Even today, if you go to the airport and you wanna get on the plane, you gotta take off your shoes, you gotta go on the body scanner and stand like this, right?
And all these things.
Some of you guys might not remember the days, the young people might not even remember the days before 2001 where you could literally walk up to the gate with no boarding pass, no nothing.
When you watch these old movies, right, the pre-2001 movies, it's shocking.
to see the guy run to the gate to find his love before she gets on the plane.
Nowadays you say, no, no, no, the TSA would stop you right there and make you strip down and take off your belt and do this and that.
The girl would be on the plane and gone.
You missed the plane, right?
But that's how shocking it was.
That's how different it was.
9-11 changed everything.
And that was over the desk of 5,000 people in one attack.
COVID-19 has resulted in the deaths of over 3 million people worldwide, over 600,000 of which were right here in the United States.
Folks, it's not easy to say, oh, we can ignore that.
We can't ignore those things.
When something serious happens to us, when a trauma happens to us, it affects us, right?
And you hear about people having post-traumatic stress syndrome, right?
I don't doubt that many people
have that same kind of attitude when it comes to coming out of this COVID-19 pandemic.
It's wonderful that now we have vaccines and we have lowered case rates and things like that.
You know, that's a great thing.
But you know what?
I think it's also true that there's a lot of people, even with all that,
they're not ready for, let's get back to normal.
They can't flip a switch in their mind and say, okay, we're going back to the way it was in February 2020, right?
I'm just looking at my own life, right?
I know what the science says.
I know things are getting better and all that, but you know what?
I have not said I'm ready to go hop on a plane tomorrow and go fly to wherever, right?
I'm not ready to say, oh, I'm gonna go and, you know,
go do all these things that other people are doing, go do wild parties, mass gatherings or whatever.
I haven't yet.
And there's a lot of people that are like that too.
Maybe they are not ready because of this kind of post-traumatic stress.
And you know what?
Some of it might be long lasting.
See, what happens is you don't go back to the old normal.
You go back to a new normal.
And I think Willie was giving a perfect example of it this morning.
Oh, it's not, okay, we're gonna open the office in August, everyone come back in normal.
It's oh, well now maybe some people will stay at home.
Oh, maybe we're gonna change the configuration.
And there's a lot of stuff that's like that, right?
That's not just everything is the same, right?
Even Disneyland opening up.
Oh, we're opening up full capacity.
It's not the same, right?
They say, oh, now we have to have online ordering, right?
For food and things like that.
And same thing for a lot of other businesses you see, right?
They're not going back and just doing it
the same way, right?
There's an article about McDonald's, how they're doing so well with their app ordering and delivery, that that's gonna be a mainstay of what their business model is from now on.
They're changing the way they do things.
There's no quick return to normal.
And that's also true for the church.
For the church.
In fact, I would say this.
For the church, there's no such thing as normal.
We had Nathan speak about this just a couple weeks ago.
for Memorial Day, about a little bit of the church history.
Folks, when we see the history of the church, we know there's no such thing as, oh, this is the way it should be, and this is the way it always is, and this is normal.
In the first century Christians, what was their life like?
Living under constant persecution.
Meeting in people's houses and outdoors.
Facing the constant threat of being killed for their faith.
That was normal for them.
That was absolutely 100% normal.
That's normal if you're a Christian in
the first century, second century.
But then what happened?
As Nathan pointed out in the 300s, all of a sudden, all the Roman government decides we want to legalize Christianity.
We want to make Christianity our official religion.
Whoa, then everything changed, right?
Now you have a total different perspective.
Now the Christian experience is we are the state religion, right?
We are official, right?
Everything is different.
There becomes a new normal.
And we see it again and again and again throughout history.
We see that as the state religion became corrupted, right?
The Catholic Church became corrupted.
What happened?
There's something new.
The new normal popped up.
People had to go challenge that.
The Martin Luther's of the world to say, hey, we're going to oppose this.
And that led to literal wars against Christians.
That was the normal of the day.
Even in the United States, we've seen the evolution where the United States was at one time a very
majority Christian country with Christian values to today you guys see the normal is that most people don't believe in God most people aren't Christians they don't worship God that's the new normal it is for Christians and even today it's not uniform and everywhere we heard from our missionary right how different it is in China their normal is nothing like our normal right where you have to meet underground and you're facing arrest
even today.
So there's no normal.
There's no uniform experience for the church.
There was no uniform experience for the church before the pandemic.
And there's going to be no going back to uniform, whatever thing, after it.
So what is normal for Christian?
What should be normal?
That's a good question, isn't it?
Because they keep hearing that word over and over again.
Well, I thought about it and
I came up with this.
It reminded me of this book.
This book.
This book is called The Normal Christian Life.
The Normal Christian Life.
Written by this famous Chinese pastor.
His name is Watchman Ni.
He wrote this book and it was written a hundred years ago.
A hundred years ago.
He wrote this book.
About what does it mean to be a normal Christian?
And I think some of the stuff he wrote in that book resonates still today.
Why is that?
Because in his book,
He didn't write about, oh, you know, normal Christians have to dress like this.
Normal Christians have to listen to this music.
Normal Christians have to, you know, I don't know, do this job or whatever, this other thing.
He didn't talk about any of that stuff.
What does he talk about in his book?
He talks about what did he say in the Bible that's normal for Christians?
What has been the Bible experience of Christians from the days the Bible was written?
all the way up until today when he lived 100 years ago and surprisingly still resonating with us here today in the year 2021.
So I wanted to call out a few things that I learned from looking at his book from also reading the Bible about what I see should be, should be things that we think are the normal part of the Christian experience.
So we're going to start looking at that today and we will definitely not finish looking at even the time, right?
But we'll see what we can get to, and we'll go on to more of it next time about the normal Christian life.
All right.
The first point in the normal Christian life, what's the most normal experience for all Christians, for all of us here?
For me, for you, everyone sitting in this room here today, the number one thing, what is a normal Christian life?
Like, a normal Christian is a sinner.
Romans 3 verses 9 and 10 say this,
What then are we better than they?
Know and know why.
So we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles that they are all under sin.
Jews and Gentiles are both all under sin.
As it is written, there is none righteous, no not one.
Romans 3.23, for all of sin and come short of the glory of God.
The universal truth, the most normal thing for every person is this.
We are
sinners.
There's no getting around that fact.
No matter how much we try to rationalize our behaviors and think about our lives, it's a simple truth.
We've all done wrong.
We are all imperfect.
It's part of all of our lives.
It's a starting point for all of our lives.
Even when we were babies, even today now, we are sinners.
The most normal thing for people to do
is to sin, right?
When we're talking about getting back to normal after COVID-19, you know, one of the things that's going back to normal that's not so good is that people are getting back to normal on their sin life, right?
We've heard Melvin crack the joke so many times about how, oh, you know, oh, because of COVID, there's no 420 festival.
I am so sad, right?
And when he was not really sad, right?
Well, guess what's gonna happen next year?
There's gonna be a 420 festival, right?
Oh, he was so happy.
Mel was so happy during the pandemic.
All the bars were closed.
No one could get drunk, right?
You can't go to the bar.
Guess what now?
The bars are open.
People are going there to the bars, right?
I bet you this.
I don't have statistics on this.
I bet you during the lockdown, it was very hard for people to have affairs and cheating on their wife, right?
Because you're locked down at home.
You can't go out anywhere.
How are you going to cheat on your wife or your husband when you're locked down at home?
Now, oh, everything's open up.
I bet you.
This is just anecdotal, of course, but I bet you the number of people having adultery, affairs, all these other things, probably increasing, right?
Why?
Because that's normal.
It's normal that people are gonna sin.
It's the most normal thing you can imagine.
And yes, even for Christians, that's our starting point.
Our starting point is that we have a fallen life, a ruined life, a life of sin.
That's normal.
And because of that fact, because of that fact, it's also very normal.
It's very normal that we Christians need the blood of Christ.
We all know that here.
Everyone here sitting here knows that, right?
That a normal Christian needs the blood of Christ.
Romans 5, 8 and 9 says this.
But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.
Because we're sinners, we need that justification through his blood.
And this is universal.
It didn't matter if you were living in the days of Paul in the first century, it's true.
We needed Jesus' blood.
to be justified.
It didn't matter if you're living in the year 1000 in the dark ages, if you're a Christian, what's normal?
You need the blood to be justified from your sins.
It didn't matter if you're living 100 years ago like Watchmen Knee, you need the blood of Christ.
And today, everyone here in this audience, everyone here watching on the stream, you need the blood of Christ.
You need to be saved.
That's the only way to be
free from our sin.
The only way to conquer sin is through the blood of Jesus Christ.
That's our natural state.
How do we get out of our natural state of sin?
Jesus Christ blood.
It's Jesus Christ blood that washes us clean, that gives us that freedom from sin.
It's through Jesus Christ blood that we have a new life
when he was crucified on that cross way back when.
And here's the thing about his blood and the wondrous thing about his blood.
The wondrous thing about his blood.
It not just washes us once.
It washes us over and over again.
Because like we said, we're still sinners.
It's still normal.
Sin is still part of our life.
That's why we need that blood all the more.
To wash us not once,
not twice, not three times, but over and over again on a daily basis that every day as we accumulate more and more sins, that blood washes us more and more and more.
That we need to be cleansed over and over again to have that new life through Jesus Christ.
You know, we know as Christians, we know the truth of Jesus Christ.
We know what he did for us.
And we should understand the wonderful, the wonderful
healing power of his blood.
So that's the second point.
What's normal for Christians?
Normal number one, we sin.
Number two, we know about forgiveness from sin through his blood, Jesus Christ's blood.
But even with that, even with that, what is normal for Christians?
And this is, you know, this is surprising.
All these things are pretty bad, right?
Brad sounding, but you know, it's the truth.
It's normal for Christians that we continue to face temptation, temptation.
The blood washes away our sin.
That's the past.
It washes away all the bad things we did before.
But you know what?
We're still ourselves.
We still have that old self somewhere in here, somewhere in our flesh.
Somewhere in our flesh, that old self is still there.
Jesus saved us from our sins, right?
He helped us triumph over our sins.
But he did not eradicate sin.
Sin still exists.
He didn't make it so that, oh, you become a Christian, now you live a perfect life.
You never sin again.
Nope, nope, nope, nope.
Many of us, and I'm first to admit it, we fall back into sin all the time.
We're tempted to sin all the time.
Whatever it is, we see it.
We think it.
We feel it.
It's normal.
No one here can say, oh, I haven't looked at
My friend's house lives in a fancier house and has a fancier car and say, boy, I covet that house.
You can say you never thought that for one second.
I can't say that, right?
No one has ever can say that, oh, you look at all these people, you know, partying, you know, drinking alcohol, taking drugs or everything.
They're having a fun time or whatever, so-called fun time.
No one can say that for a second.
Did you ever think, I wonder what that's like?
Think about that sometimes, don't you?
that temptation is out there to see it in the culture, in the world.
It's all around.
Satan is all around.
Satan wants to get to our flesh all the time.
He wants us to call us away from the blood and back into the flesh over and over again.
And that's why, that's why we need deliverance from sin over and over again.
Because you know what?
As try as we might, the other truth about the normal Christian life is that we face a temptation, and sometimes we fail.
We fail the test, right?
But you know, that's normal.
It shouldn't be discouraging, right?
Some people take the attitude that, oh, I failed the test.
I give up.
I give up, God.
I'm not worthy.
But we have to understand that, no, no, no, no.
The test is continual.
It is normal.
Even though these sound like sad truths to start off with.
We're talking about the Christian life.
It's pretty sad to hear we're all sinners.
We all need forgiveness.
We all still face temptation after that.
It's not as bad as it seems.
And it's not supposed to be that bad.
Because of this.
Because we have Jesus Christ.
the normal Christian, how do we deal with this?
How do we deal with this?
The normal Christian, the way forward is to abide in Christ.
Romans chapter six, verse number six to eight says this.
Knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, henceforth we should not serve sin.
For he that is dead is freed from sin.
Now if we be dead with Christ,
We believe that we shall also live with him.
John 15 forces this, abide in me and I in you.
As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine.
No more can ye accept ye abide in me.
Our old man, the sinful man is crucified with Jesus.
We are with Jesus.
It's not just, oh, Jesus did this for me.
He did it together with us.
When he was crucified, he didn't just die.
It was supposed to be that our old self died with him.
And through that death, we get freedom from sin, freedom from sin.
And what should we do henceforth?
Live with him.
abide in him.
Come to the understanding that we have Jesus in our life now.
That's normal.
It's not an abnormal thing.
The Holy Spirit with us is not abnormal.
It's not a special ability.
It's not only you special missionary have this power.
It's not just, oh, you're a fancy pastor.
You have this power.
It is a power that is for all of us.
It is normal.
It is everybody.
It is me, you, every single person sitting here, that you have the power of the Holy Spirit with you.
We were crucified with him.
We were raised with him.
We have him.
He lives within our heart.
And that is the way forward for the normal Christian.
In 2 Corinthians 5.17 it says this, Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature.
old things are passed away.
Behold, all things are become new.
Our old self is supposed to die.
We're supposed to have a new self, a new one that lives with Jesus, day to day, walking with Him, talking with Him, having Him, guiding our life.
That's the way forward for the normal Christian.
Now I see we've gone out of time, so we'll save some of the stuff for next time.
But we'll go forward with this to say, OK, we talked about all the bad about how Christians are like normally.
What's the way forward?
How do we live forward with Jesus in our heart, with Jesus abiding with us?
We'll talk about that next time.
But we'll wrap up with this quote here from Mr. Knee himself.
I need forgiveness for what I've done.
But I also need deliverance from what I am.
We need forgiveness.
We need the blood.
But we also need Jesus to deliver us from who we are, that sinful state, to carry us forward.
There's nothing more normal than that.
Let's pray.
Dear God, thank you for giving us your words here in the Bible.
We want to learn about how we can be good, normal Christians.
We know we're sinners.
We know we need Jesus to save us.
But we know also the way forward, the solution to that is through Jesus Christ.
you've blessed us with the Holy Spirit and we'll talk more about that next time that we have the Holy Spirit in our heart that we have it to guide us and lead us and carry us through all things Lord we're so thankful that we have that we have the Holy Spirit we're so thankful that we have Jesus saving from our sins Lord we ask you watch over this congregation here as you know they were so faithful to worship you and honor you Lord
Please bless everyone here and may we all have a good week going forward.
Pray all these things in Jesus' name.
Amen.